# Overview

<javadoc directory="zss">org.zkoss.zss.api.model.Range</javadoc> API can
allow you to add, move, and delete a charts of a Spreadsheet:

``` java

public Chart addChart(SheetAnchor anchor, Type type, Grouping grouping, LegendPosition pos);

public void deleteChart(Chart chart);

public void moveChart(SheetAnchor anchor,Chart chart);
```

A chart
(<javadoc directory='zss'>org.zkoss.zss.api.model.Chart</javadoc>) is a
simple object that you can only get its ID and position. All chart types
constant are listed in <javadoc directory="zss">
org.zkoss.zss.api.model.Chart.Type</javadoc>. Most chart types are
supported except `OF_PIE, RADAR, STOCK, SURFACE_3D`, and `SURFACE`.
Supported grouping(<javadoc directory="zss">
org.zkoss.zss.api.model.Chart.Grouping</javadoc>) are `STANDARD,
STACKED, PERCENT_STACKED` and, `CLUSTERED`. Supported legend
positions(<javadoc directory="zss">
org.zkoss.zss.api.model.Chart.LegendPosition</javadoc>) are `BOTTOM,
LEFT, RIGHT, TOP`, and `TOP_RIGHT`. \[1\]

The <javadoc directory="zss">org.zkoss.zss.api.SheetAnchor</javadoc>
represents a chart's position on a sheet. When adding or moving a chart,
you must provide one `SheetAnchor` to assign a chart's position. You can
create a `SheetAnchor` by passing 4 index numbers, left-top corner's and
right-bottom's row and column of a chart. When invoking `addChart()`,
you will get the newly-created chart object in returned value. You had
better store it somewhere you can retrieve it back later if you plan to
delete or move it. Otherwise, you can only get them from a `Sheet`
method:

``` java
    public List<Chart> getCharts();
```

Then, use its ID or position to identify a chart.

# ZK Charts engine

`SinceÂ 3.6.1`

Since 3.6.1, ZK Charts is the default chart engine. We don't need any
changes in our code except export server for exporting PDF. Please refer
to
[ZK\_Spreadsheet\_Essentials/Working\_with\_Spreadsheet/Handling\_Data\_Model/Export\_to\_PDF](ZK_Spreadsheet_Essentials/Working_with_Spreadsheet/Handling_Data_Model/Export_to_PDF "wikilink")

# Example

The screenshot below is a application that can add, move and delete a
chart. For simplicity, this application only adds pie charts.

![ center | 900px](zss-essentials-chart.png " center | 900px")

When we click "Add", it will add a pie chart with the data from A1:B6
and add a items in the Listbox on the top right corner. Select a chart
item in the listbox, enter destination row and column index in 2
Intboxes, then click "Move". The selected chart will be moved to
specified position. The "Delete" button will delete the selected chart.

Notice that there are 5 columns in the Listbox on the top right corner
which display information about charts we add. The ID is a chart's ID
generated automatically by Spreadsheet. The row and column represents a
chart's position of the left top corner in 0-based index and the last
row and last column represents symmetric position of a chart (right
bottom corner). For example, in the screenshot, the topmost chart whose
ID is "rid1", its left top corner is at "F1" represented in column index
"5" and row index "0". Its right bottom corner is at "K9" represented in
column index "10" and row index "8". in column index "1" and row index
"6". Its right bottom corner is at "C12" represented in column index
"11" and row index "2". These position information is stored in
`SheetAnchor`. When adding or moving a picture, you must provide one
`SheetAnchor` to assign a picture's position. The `SheetOperationUtil`
provides methods to simplify this.

Let's see this application's controller codes:

``` java
public class ChartComposer extends SelectorComposer<Component> {

    @Wire
    private Intbox toRowBox;
    @Wire
    private Intbox toColumnBox;
    @Wire
    private Spreadsheet ss;
    @Wire
    private Listbox chartListbox;

    private ListModelList<Chart> chartList = new ListModelList<Chart>();

    @Listen("onClick = #addButton")
    public void addByUtil(){
        SheetOperationUtil.addChart(Ranges.range(ss.getSelectedSheet(),new AreaRef("A1:B6")),
        Type.PIE, Grouping.STANDARD, LegendPosition.RIGHT);
        refreshChartList();
    }
    
    @Listen("onClick = #moveButton")
    public void moveByUtil(){
        if (chartListbox.getSelectedItem() != null){
            SheetOperationUtil.moveChart(Ranges.range(ss.getSelectedSheet()),
                    (Chart)chartListbox.getSelectedItem().getValue(),
                    toRowBox.getValue(), toColumnBox.getValue());
            refreshChartList();
        }
    }
    
    @Listen("onClick = #deleteButton")
    public void deleteByUtil(){
        if (chartListbox.getSelectedItem() != null){
            SheetOperationUtil.deleteChart(Ranges.range(ss.getSelectedSheet()), 
                    (Chart)chartListbox.getSelectedItem().getValue());
            refreshChartList();
        }
    }

    private void refreshChartList(){
        chartList.clear();
        chartList.addAll(ss.getSelectedSheet().getCharts());
        chartListbox.setModel(chartList);
    }
}
```

  - Line 16: `SheetOperationUtil.addChart()` converts a range of cells
    automatically to chart data based on a predefined assumption. For
    example, it will assume that the first column contains category
    labels.

<references/>

1.  Spreadsheet cannot read legend position from XLS file currently.
